[Music]
now for those of you thirsty for more
knowledge comes this what if you stop
drinking water for a day you know your
body is up to 70% water this figure
changes with age when you were a fetus
hey remember that you consisted of 95%
of water for the first month of
existence at Earth
this amount became lower seventy-seven
percent all in all in a 150-pound person
there are 11 gallons of water and
two-thirds of this water is in your
cells so why is water so important for a
human body well it transports useful
substances and nutrients to different
organs of your body it provides energy
it strengthens muscles and lubricates
joints it even lubricates your eyes a
normal cardiovascular function is
impossible when you don't have enough
water in your body
what's more without sufficient amount of
water your body wouldn't be able to
regulate its temperature and you'd start
to overheat an average person drinks
about 264 gallons of water a year people
take this liquid for granted and
probably never think what would happen
if they stopped drinking it well let's
see what dire consequences this action
would have to begin with water includes
other liquids such as soda juices tea
and plain old soup however these options
are perceived by your body mostly like
food but if you can't get pure water to
hydrate yourself these drinks will
suffice if the level of water in your
body drops by one percent your survival
instinct will kick in and you will start
to feel thirsty so what will happen to
your body if you stop drinking water at
all well first of all your urine will
become dark when your body feels the
lack of water the kidneys send more of
this liquid to the blood and as the
blood keeps all of the water the urine
turns dark yellow this way your body
conserves its fluids after a day or so
without liquid you will stop peeing at
all
what is more you'll also have trouble
swallowing due to lack of water in your
body your brain will start to shrink oh
that's why at first this will be a
temporary phenomenon but if you don't
recover your water balance the brain may
suffer from permanent damage another
negative effect of the lack of water
will be that your brain will have to
work much harder to fulfill even the
simplest tasks your energy level will
drop significantly oh you will start to
lose focus easily and what if I forget
oh you will become much more irritable
as water is supposed to lubricate your
joints in the areas between your bones
its Lac will make your whole body hurt
as your bones will grind against each
other the condition of your skin will
get much worse wrinkles and fine lines
will become more prominent the skin
itself will feel dry and will start to
peel away will lovely
you'll start to suffer from headaches as
your brain will have to make a double
effort to do anything along with the
headaches you'll have pain in your eyes
there won't be enough water to lubricate
them so that they will become
exceedingly dry you will start to gain
water weight now this may sound a bit
illogical but that's the way your body
will try to conserve all the available
water to prevent you from severe
dehydration as a result you'll feel and
look bloated you will have great
problems with your bathroom schedule as
soon as your body realizes that water is
missing it will start to absorb more
which will make it next to impossible to
get rid of waste
later symptoms will be muscle spasms and
elevated body temperature the blood
won't get to the skin and you may turn
grayish blue you may faint or even have
a stroke after a period of three to five
days depending on such factors at your
age weight and health condition the
organs of your body will start to shut
down this may lead to death after the
brain starts functioning whoo sounds
terrifying doesn't it that's why it's
extremely important to notice the signs
of dehydration on time and do everything
to avoid such a condition so pay
attention to your water balance if your
mouth becomes dry and it's hard to
swallow
the color of your urine turns darker
than usual you gain weight despite your
regular visits to the gym meaning your
metabolic rate has lower you feel
feverish your heart rate is elevated you
feel dizzy and suffer from repetitive
headaches your skin loses its elasticity
and turns red you feel constantly tired
you can't concentrate if you're a guy
you may have erectile dysfunctions you
don't cry anymore even if you're a guy
with erectile dysfunctions not because
you don't want to but because you just
can't
each of these symptoms is worrying
enough but if you notice several of them
it's time to ring the alarm bell you
might be suffering from dehydration you
should immediately increase your water
intake however you should do this
correctly people need a different amount
of water according to their age gender
weight and lifestyle for example the
Institute of Medicine advises women from
19 to 50 to drink 90 ounces of water a
day while men from 19 to 50 should
consume daily not less than 125 ounces
of water spread the amount of water
necessary for you throughout the day
for example drink one glass of water in
the morning as soon as you get up this
will jumpstart your metabolism and
hydrate you after the night when you
didn't drink any liquid take a water
bottle with you wherever you go if you
stay in the office during the day
put water on the table and take a sip
now on that if your job is connected
with moving around remember to put your
water bottle in your backpack you can
play with different types of water
bottles for example the ones with
measurement marks on the side with a
special insulation to keep it cool with
a built-in filter or a cylinder inside
to keep a piece of fruit if you go to
the gym drink more after a set of
moderate exercises you need to have
additional 1 to 2 cups of water use an
app that tracks water intake such
application can be programmed to remind
you to drink more water some of them can
even show the location of a free water
fountain nearest you follow the rule of
8 by 8 this means that you need to drink
8 ounces of water 8 times a day if water
is unavailable try to find other sources
of hydration you can drink juice tea
coffee or eat fruit instead it goes
without saying that water is the best
liquid to hydrate you but if you have no
other choice
use anything you can pour into your cup
to achieve your daily liquid intake norm
at the same time try not to drink more
than 4 cups of tea or coffee a day
irritability headaches and insomnia will
most likely be side effects of excessive
consumption of these drinks it may seem
surprising but more than 20% of your
daily intake of water comes from food
try to eat more celery watermelon and
cucumbers to support your water balance
another way to introduce more liquid to
your diet is broth and soups and finally
be sure of what you're drinking there's
this cruel little poem about being sure
you know what liquid is water and what
isn't
Johnnie was a chemist son but Johnnie is
no more for what he thought was h2o was
h2so4 so do you know what that compound
is tell us in the comments below along
with how much water do you drink a day
share this video with those of your
friends who consider water too plain and
boring press the like button if you
found this video useful and remember to
subscribe to our Channel
otherwise you'll miss all the cool stuff
we have on the bright side bright side
[Music]